[← Back to all controls](index.md)


AllControls, MITRE

## Severity

Medium

## Description of the the issue

Exposing a sensitive interface to the internet poses a security risk. Some popular frameworks were not intended to be exposed to the internet, and therefore don’t require authentication by default. Thus, exposing them to the internet allows unauthenticated access to a sensitive interface which might enable running code or deploying containers in the cluster by a malicious actor. Examples of such interfaces that were seen exploited include Apache NiFi, Kubeflow, Argo Workflows, Weave Scope, and the Kubernetes dashboard.Note, this control is configurable. See below the details.

## Related resources

CronJob, DaemonSet, Deployment, Job, Pod, ReplicaSet, Service, StatefulSet

## What does this control test

Checking if a service of type nodeport/loadbalancer to one of the known exploited interfaces (Apache NiFi, Kubeflow, Argo Workflows, Weave Scope Kubernetes dashboard) exists. Needs to add user config

## Remediation

Consider blocking external interfaces or protect them with appropriate security tools.

## Configuration

This control can be configured using the following parameters. Read CLI/UI documentation about how to change parameters.

### Sensitive interfaces

[sensitiveInterfaces](../frameworks-and-controls/configuration-parameters.md#sensitiveinterfaces)  
List of known software interfaces that should not generally be exposed to the Internet.

## Example

No example
