---
title: "C-0179 - Ensure that the --hostname-override argument is not set"
slug: "c-0179"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2023-01-09T11:12:23.947Z"
updatedAt: "2023-09-05T11:11:49.839Z"
---
## Prerequisites
Kubescape must be run with the [host scanner enabled](/docs/scanning/#the-host-scanner) to use this control.
## Framework
cis-aks-t1.2.0, cis-eks-t1.2.0, cis-v1.23-t1.0.1
## Severity
Low
## Description of the the issue
Overriding hostnames could potentially break TLS setup between the kubelet and the apiserver. Additionally, with overridden hostnames, it becomes increasingly difficult to associate logs with a particular node and process them for security analytics. Hence, you should setup your kubelet nodes with resolvable FQDNs and avoid overriding the hostnames with IPs.
## Related resources

## What does this control test
Do not override node hostnames.
## How to check it manually
Run the following command on each node:

 
```
ps -ef | grep kubelet

```
 Verify that `--hostname-override` argument does not exist.

 **Note** This setting is not configurable via the Kubelet config file.
## Remediation
Edit the kubelet service file `/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf` on each worker node and remove the `--hostname-override` argument from the `KUBELET_SYSTEM_PODS_ARGS` variable.

 Based on your system, restart the `kubelet` service. For example:

 
```
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart kubelet.service

```
### Impact Statement
Some cloud providers may require this flag to ensure that hostname matches names issued by the cloud provider. In these environments, this recommendation should not apply.
### Default Value
By default, `--hostname-override` argument is not set.
## Example
No example