---
title: "C-0202 - Minimize the admission of Windows HostProcess Containers"
slug: "c-0202"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2023-01-09T10:56:10.590Z"
updatedAt: "2023-09-05T11:11:35.007Z"
---
## Framework
cis-v1.23-t1.0.1
## Severity
High
## Description of the the issue
A Windows container making use of the `hostProcess` flag can interact with the underlying Windows cluster node. As per the Kubernetes documentation, this provides "privileged access" to the Windows node.

 Where Windows containers are used inside a Kubernetes cluster, there should be at least one admission control policy which does not permit `hostProcess` Windows containers.

 If you need to run Windows containers which require `hostProcess`, this should be defined in a separate policy and you should carefully check to ensure that only limited service accounts and users are given permission to use that policy.
## Related resources
MutatingWebhookConfiguration, Namespace, ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
## What does this control test
Do not generally permit Windows containers to be run with the `hostProcess` flag set to true.
## How to check it manually
List the policies in use for each namespace in the cluster, ensure that each policy disallows the admission of `hostProcess` containers
## Remediation
Add policies to each namespace in the cluster which has user workloads to restrict the admission of `hostProcess` containers.
### Impact Statement
Pods defined with `securityContext.windowsOptions.hostProcess: true` will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific policy.
### Default Value
By default, there are no restrictions on the creation of `hostProcess` containers.
## Example
No example