[← Back to all controls](index.md)


security

## Severity

High

## Description of the the issue

This control checks if workloads specifications have sensitive information in their environment variables.Note, this control is configurable. See below the details.

## Related resources

CronJob, DaemonSet, Deployment, Job, Pod, ReplicaSet, StatefulSet

## What does this control test

Check if the workload has sensitive information in environment variables, by using list of known sensitive key names.

## Remediation

Use Kubernetes secrets or Key Management Systems to store credentials.

## Configuration

This control can be configured using the following parameters. Read CLI/UI documentation about how to change parameters.

### Sensitive Values

[sensitiveValues](../frameworks-and-controls/configuration-parameters.md#sensitivevalues)  
Strings that identify a value that Kubescape believes should be stored in a Secret, and not in a ConfigMap or an environment variable.

### Allowed Values

[sensitiveValuesAllowed](../frameworks-and-controls/configuration-parameters.md#sensitivevaluesallowed)  
Reduce false positives with known values.

### Sensitive Keys

[sensitiveKeyNames](../frameworks-and-controls/configuration-parameters.md#sensitivekeynames)  
Key names that identify a potential value that should be stored in a Secret, and not in a ConfigMap or an environment variable.

### Allowed Keys

[sensitiveKeyNamesAllowed](../frameworks-and-controls/configuration-parameters.md#sensitivekeynamesallowed)  
Reduce false positives with known key names.

## Example

No example
